Test middleware topic (#18114)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/test/middleware.md

---
title: Test ASP.NET Core middleware
author: tratcher
description: Learn how to test ASP.NET Core middleware with TestServer.
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 5/6/2019
no-loc: [Blazor, "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: test/middleware
---
# Test ASP.NET Core middleware

By [Chris Ross](https://github.com/Tratcher)

> Test middleware in isolation with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer> for the following goals:
> 
> * Instantiate an app pipeline containing only the components that you need to test.
> * Send custom requests to verify middleware behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Middleware can be tested in isolation with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer>. It allows you to:

* Instantiate an app pipeline containing only the components that you need to test.
* Send custom requests to verify middleware behavior.
```

Advantages:

* Requests are sent in-memory rather than being serialized over the network.
* This avoids additional concerns, such as port management and HTTPS certificates.
* Exceptions in the middleware can flow directly back to the calling test.
* It's possible to customize server data structures, such as <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext>, directly in the test.

> ## Test middleware with HttpClient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up the TestServer
```

> In the test app, create a test:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the test project, create a test:
```

* Build and start a host that uses <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer>.
* Add any required services that the middleware uses.
* Configure the processing pipeline to use the middleware for the test.

[!code-csharp[](middleware/samples_snapshot/3.x/setup.cs?highlight=4-18)]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Send requests with HttpClient
```

                });
        })
        .StartAsync();

    var server = host.GetTestServer();
    server.BaseAddress = new Uri("https://example.com/A/Path/");

    var context = await server.SendAsync(c =>
    {
        c.Request.Method = HttpMethods.Post;
        c.Request.Path = "/and/file.txt";
        c.Request.QueryString = new QueryString("?and=query");
    });

    Assert.True(context.RequestAborted.CanBeCanceled);
    Assert.Equal(HttpProtocol.Http11, context.Request.Protocol);
    Assert.Equal("POST", context.Request.Method);
    Assert.Equal("https", context.Request.Scheme);
    Assert.Equal("example.com", context.Request.Host.Value);
    Assert.Equal("/A/Path", context.Request.PathBase.Value);
    Assert.Equal("/and/file.txt", context.Request.Path.Value);
    Assert.Equal("?and=query", context.Request.QueryString.Value);
    Assert.NotNull(context.Request.Body);
    Assert.NotNull(context.Request.Headers);
    Assert.NotNull(context.Response.Headers);
    Assert.NotNull(context.Response.Body);
    Assert.Equal(404, context.Response.StatusCode);
    Assert.Null(context.Features.Get<IHttpResponseFeature>().ReasonPhrase);
}
```

> <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer.SendAsync%2A> permits direct configuration of an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext> object rather than using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext> abstractions. Use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer.SendAsync%2A> to manipulate structures only available on the server, such as [HttpContext.Items](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext.Items) or [HttpContext.Features](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext.Features).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer.SendAsync%2A> permits direct configuration of an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext> object rather than using the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> abstractions. Use <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer.SendAsync%2A> to manipulate structures only available on the server, such as [HttpContext.Items](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext.Items) or [HttpContext.Features](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext.Features).
```

---
title: Test ASP.NET Core middleware
author: cross
description: Learn how to test ASP.NET Core middleware with TestServer.
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 4/05/2019
no-loc: [Blazor, "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: test/middleware
---
# Test ASP.NET Core middleware

By [Chris Ross](https://github.com/Tratcher)

> Middleware can be tested in isolation using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer>. Instantiate an app pipeline containing only the components that you need to test and send custom requests to verify middleware behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Middleware can be tested in isolation using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer>. This allows you to instantiate an app pipeline containing only the components that you need to test and send custom requests to verify middleware behavior.
```

> The requests:
> 
> * Are sent in-memory rather than being serialized over the network.
> * Avoid additional concerns like port management and HTTPS certificates.
> 
> Exceptions in the middleware can flow directly back to the calling test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advantages:

* Requests are sent in-memory rather than being serialized over the network.
* This avoids additional concerns like port management and HTTPS certificates.
* Exceptions in the middleware can flow directly back to the calling test.
* It's possible to customize server data structures like HttpContext directly in the test.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Send requests with HttpClient
```

Set up your test app, add your own middleware and services, and send a request using <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>:

```csharp
[Fact]
public async Task GenericCreateAndStartHost_GetTestServer()
{

>     using var host = await new HostBuilder()

Reviewer: There should be a setup example before discussing HttpContext or SendAsync.
```
    using var host = await new HostBuilder()
        .ConfigureWebHost(webBuilder =>
        {
            webBuilder
                .UseTestServer()
                .ConfigureServices(services =>
                {
                   services.AddMyServices();
                })
                .Configure(app =>
                {
                   app.UseMiddleware<MyMiddleware>();
                });
        })
        .StartAsync();
```

Then the HttpClient sample is just:
```
    var response = await host.GetTestServer().CreateClient().GetAsync("/");
    Assert.Equal(HttpStatusCode.NotFound, response.StatusCode);
```

        .ConfigureWebHost(webBuilder =>
        {
            webBuilder
                .UseTestServer()
                .Configure(app => { });
        })
        .StartAsync();

    var response = await host.GetTestServer().CreateClient().GetAsync("/");

    Assert.Equal(HttpStatusCode.NotFound, response.StatusCode);
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Send requests with HttpContext
```

A test app can also send a request using [SendAsync(Action\<HttpContext>, CancellationToken)](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost.TestServer.SendAsync%2A):

```csharp
[Fact]
public async Task ExpectedValuesAreAvailable()
{

>     var builder = new WebHostBuilder().Configure(app => { });

Reviewer: Don't use any WebHostBuilder examples, only HostBuilder. The SendAsync example picks up after the HostBuilder sample like this:
```
var server = host.GetTestServer();
server.BaseAddress = new Uri("https://example.com/A/Path/");
var context = await server.SendAsync(c =>
    {
        c.Request.Method = HttpMethods.Post;
        c.Request.Path = "/and/file.txt";
        c.Request.QueryString = new QueryString("?and=query");
    });
...
```
